let us understand how to implement this problem
First we need to store the node and its depth
together in the queue.
For that let us create a structure named Q items
with two members
The first member is to store the node
write node * node
The second member is to store the depth so write
So in this problem we need to fill the no
details as well as the depth information in Q items
Then we need to push it into the queue
Now let us write the function to find the main
depth which takes only one argument that is the root
of the tree.
And if it is an empty tree, we can straight away
return min depth as zero
So write if root equal to null, return zero and if
the tree is not empty we need to store the root
node and its depth in the queue.
For that, let us create a Q that accepts Queue
items variables so that we can store the node data
with its depth in the queue.
So write Queue
Of Q items queue now create the queue items variable
to store the root node and its depth
So write
queue
items now to store the node, write dot not equal
to root for the root node
We will set its depth as one.
So write q.depth equal to one
Now we can push this into the queue. So write
cured are push(key) now in BFS
What will we do While the queue is not empty
we will pop the first element and push
it's left and right child. So write while not cured
out empty store the front Q.item and poor pit
from the queue
So write
Q items front node equal to q.front and
then to pop the item from the queue
write q.pop
Now we have the front Q items data in the
variable front node.
From that we can keep the node and depth details
and store it for future use.
So to get the node's details write node * node
equal to front node.node and to get the
depth just write in depth equal to front node.depth
now we will check whether the left and right
nodes are present.
If present, we need to create a Queue item with
node and depth detailed and push it into the queue
First let us check whether the left node is not
So write if node left not equal to null. If it
is not, we need to create the queue item
and push it into the queue. So to store the
left node, write queue.node equal to node left
We need to mark the child node's depth as parent node's
depth + 1. So write.depth equal to depth + 1
and push this information into the queue.
So write queue.push(key) Similarly we need to write
the logic for the right node. So this while loop
will do this BFS process until the queue
become empty. And while doing this process, if we find
the leaf node, we can simply return its depth. That
will be the minimum depth of the tree. So check
if we have reached the leaf node before pushing the
left and right node. And if we reach the leaf
node, just return the tact. So write if node left
equal to null and node right equal to null return up Finally